Good afternoon everybody.
Would you please welcome Kerry Hazelgren,
Senior Apple Script Automator Engineer,
who will be giving your talk today.
Good afternoon.
Welcome to the last session
before the beer bash.
I hope we can get through this quickly,
right?
Today we're going to talk about
writing Cocoa Automator Actions.
As you see, my name's Kerry Hazelgren,
as mentioned.
Let's have a quick show of hands.
How many people have attempted to or
successfully written an Automator Action?
All right, pretty good.
And how many people knew that
the robot's name was Otto?
Okay.
It's Otto, O-T-T-O, not A-U-T-O.
We're going to start to review
what we're going to learn today.
We'll go over the steps
in the hands-on session.
This is supposed to
be a hands-on session,
but I have to apologize.
It's going to be more like a guided
tour due to a glitch in the sample code.
You'll be able to follow along with me,
but won't be able to
build any of the projects.
I apologize about that.
That should be fixed shortly
after the conference.
You'll be able to download
the corrected source code.
Then we'll talk about a little background
information on what Automator is and
what it does and its pieces and parts,
and why you should
create Automator Actions,
what's in it for you.
So what we're going to learn,
we're going to talk about
how to design actions,
some of the guidelines to be followed
when designing Automator Actions,
how to create them,
meaning physically or in Xcode,
how to create a project,
How to add your source code,
how to design the UI, how to build it,
install it, etc.
How to create conversion actions.
We'll have to talk about those
and explain what those are,
but we will go through and we'll
actually create conversion action.
And for those of you who
put bugs in your code,
we'll talk about how to
debug actions as well.
So what is Automator?
This is a quote from Matt Newberg.
End users, I suspect,
will quickly discover that Automator
is the fulfillment of a dream.
At long last, anyone can program the Mac.
And that's really true.
This is for everyone.
Automator, as best as I can describe it,
is workflow automation for the masses.
It's for anyone to use.
It's very simple.
Just through a drag and drop interface.
And it's flexible so that it
can be tailored to your needs.
It's also extensible.
As Steve mentioned in his keynote,
there's something like 550
actions which are shipped so far,
plus the 200 that were
shipped with Tiger.
And that's just in the
first six weeks or so.
And we're hoping that this conference
will give it another boost.
And there will be many more to come.
You're great actions.
So workflows are what we
create with Automator.
Workflows are what we
Workflows can be saved as
individual applications.
You don't need to have Automator
running in order to run these workflows.
They can be saved as
plugins to the Finder,
to the script menu, to the print panel,
to other things as well.
It can really tie in to Tiger.
So what is an Action?
Focused functionality in a small package.
It can have a large code base behind it,
but the UI is small,
and it presents a very focused,
Very focused purpose.
We can talk to -- Actions
can talk to frameworks.
Generally,
Cocoa Actions will talk to frameworks.
Or they can talk to applications.
Generally,
that would be AppleScript Actions
talking to applications to
get at their data models,
object models, and get data out of them.
We support technologies such as Cocoa,
AppleScript, and new in Xcode 2.1 is
the Shell Scripting Action.
So you can write with your
favorite scripting language,
whatever it be, or command line tool.
Why should you create Automator Actions?
Well, it can be very easy
since these are small.
They don't take a lot of
effort into designing them.
The tools you use are familiar, Xcode,
Interface Builder.
It can be fast because
you can reuse your code.
You can take the code that you've
already worked on over the years,
tested, debugged,
etc., put it right into an action,
and put a new UI on it.
Give users a new way to use
your technology or your product,
and then you've found a new market.
You become part of their daily workflow,
and you'll be cool.
In the Mac OS X State of
the Union speech,
Scott Forstall went over
his 10 best practices,
and one of them was
adopting new technologies.
Automator is a new technology.
And users like that.
So you can generate attention
for your product as well.
To mention BBEdit,
which released an update the day
before Tiger was released and came
out with 19 Automator Actions.
They got a lot of press for that.
They're finding new users,
people who don't normally
use BBEdit possibly,
but would use a BBEdit
action in a workflow,
and suddenly they have new markets.
So when we go to design an action,
the first question we ask is,
what type of action do we want?
Well,
that kind of depends what our target is.
Is our target a scriptable application?
If so, then that would lead to
an AppleScript action.
Is our target a framework
or a technology,
a library, et cetera?
Then a Cocoa action would be best.
Or are we targeting a command line tool?
Something like that.
Then a shell script action
would fit your purpose best.
Also, we want to keep it small.
We don't want any Swiss Army actions,
something that does everything and more.
We want these to be modular
pieces that users can put together
in the order that they want,
and that allows them to really
focus in on what they want to do.
Also, we want to keep it small.
We don't want any Swiss Army actions,
something that does everything and more.
We want these to be modular
pieces that users can put together
in the order that they want,
and that allows them to really
focus in on what they want to do.
Also, we want to keep it small.
We don't want any Swiss Army actions,
something that does everything and more.
We want these to be modular
pieces that users can put together
in the order that they want,
and that allows them to really
focus in on what they want to do.
Also, choose meaningful data types.
When you design an action,
you have to specify which
type of data comes in,
which type of data goes out.
I will talk more about
this in a little bit,
but there are several
predefined data types for you.
If you can't use one of those,
you can define one for yourself.
So I'm going to go and show you what
we're going to be building today,
two actions plus a conversion action.
I'm going to show you the finished
product first since as we go through
we can't really run the full thing
until all the pieces are in place.
Could I get demo two, please?
[Transcript missing]
Try and zoom in for you,
but it doesn't look like
that's turned on in here.
Let's go.
So here's our workflow that
we're going to be building.
Get specified finder items is
an existing shipping action.
So is copy finder items,
which we've put in there because
we're going to be modifying
the files that we work on.
We're going to be building this
Unsharp Mask Action and the
later Save Image to File Action.
A couple things about these two actions.
You'll notice that we have defined a
custom data type for them called images.
That's not image files,
it's actually image data in memory.
So we're going to have a conversion
action between Copy Finder Items
and Unsharp Mask to take the
image files that are passed in,
get the image data out of them,
and then pass them to Unsharp Mask.
Unsharp Mask is an action which
uses the Core Image Framework.
Core Image acts kind of like
Automator does in that it
allows you to apply successive
actions or filters on an image,
and the resulting image isn't
actually computed until it's rendered.
So that's why we have it set up this way.
We have an Unsharp Mask,
and you could easily create
additional Core Image type actions.
And chain them together,
and then the final one would
be a Save Image to File,
where it takes that image,
processes all the filters
that have been acted upon it,
and then saves the
resulting data to disk.
Okay.
Back to the slides, please.
So that's what we're
going to be building.
We're going to start with
the unshark mask action,
and we're going to build
the user interface.
So a couple things to keep in
mind when you build the user
interface for your action.
One, keep it simple.
We've already talked about that.
Follow the published guidelines.
There are Aqua Human Interface
Guidelines,
but there are also Automator
Action Human Interface Guidelines.
I don't think they're called that.
It's a long title.
They basically say things like,
use small fonts,
small controls in your action,
spaces that are premium,
so minimize your vertical space so that
you don't end up having really long,
you don't have to scroll too much.
Use Cocoa Bindings when possible.
It's not required,
but it makes things a lot easier,
and it's all about being easy to do.
And you can use shipping
actions as examples.
There are a lot out there.
If you look at the
screenshot of that action,
it uses small controls.
There's a text 10-pixel
border around the edges,
which we'll show, and that's an example
of an action interface.
Now, so let's go build the
Unchart Mask user interface.
Demo 2.
Now I'm just going to start
by opening a new project.
And in Xcode,
if you select-- can you read that?
Okay.
In Xcode, if you open a new project and
select Cocoa Automator Action,
we'll call it Unsharp Mask.
Okay, a quick look at our project.
The template gives us code classes
based on the name of the project.
It gives us a main.nib file, Info.plist,
and a target and an executable.
I hope I'm not making
you dizzy with that.
Target and an executable.
And we're just going to
open up the main.nib file.
And we're going to build that user
interface that we saw just a minute ago.
So I'm going to grab a label here.
And I'll zoom in when I'm
done so you can see it,
but that's hard to do when
I'm trying to build this.
Call the first one intensity.
Oops, grab a slider.
Open up the inspector because
we need this to be small.
Text field.
Make it small.
Make it even smaller.
and line it up.
Oh,
and I wanted that to continuously update.
Okay.
Then I'm just going to copy and paste
and change the second label to radius.
and line it up.
Oh,
and I wanted that to continuously update.
Okay.
Then I'm just going to copy
We can arrange it so that we have
a 10 pixel border around the edges.
I can just resize the
window while I do this.
It can be kind of tricky.
I actually tried doing this on
my PowerBook on a moving train.
It was a lot trickier.
OK.
So we've got all the elements in place.
Now what we need to do is
bind it using Cocoa Bindings.
And every nib file created for an action
with the template comes with an object
controller named Parameters already
on the back end hooked up to our data,
our actions data,
the Parameters dictionary.
So what we need to do is just hook it
up on the front end to our objects.
So we can select the
Parameters object controller.
Then in the inspector,
I add a couple keys, one called Intensity
That's how I do it.
One called intensity and
the other called radius.
You can add these here,
or you can also add them
in the Bindings Inspector.
But I thought I'd show
you one of two ways.
OK, so if I select the slider,
the top one,
then I'm going to select the value.
Hopefully you can see this.
Problem with that.
Okay, so we're going to select
the Model Key Path,
Intensity, bind that to the Intensity,
and the same for the Text field.
Now, something that is useful when you're
binding text fields is to select
the Continuously Updates value.
That's so that if you don't actually
return or tab out of the text field,
it still will get the value that
you or the user has entered.
Okay, then we'll just do the same
thing with the radius key for
the lower text field and slider.
and we're done with our user interface.
We can go back to Xcode,
build and run it,
and see what it looks like.
It might take a minute.
And it should launch Automator,
load our action,
But since we haven't configured
any of the other properties,
it'll just come up in this strange
primary application default key.
But there's our action, Unchart Mask.
If we add it to the workflow, we can see,
well, we don't have any default data
because we didn't set any up yet.
But we can see that the bindings
are working because the slider and
the text field are corresponding.
Not much use, but we can see that we
can do a little bit yet,
or so far.
Okay, so the next step,
if we can go back to the slides,
once that's done,
is to configure the basic
properties of the action.
The name, the category it goes in,
the input and output types, you know,
any description information.
And we can use the
Action Target Inspector to do this.
This is new in Xcode.
It's built into Xcode 2.1.
The way that we get to that,
and I'll show you this,
is you can select your target,
get the info on it, open the inspector,
and then select the properties tab.
Tab.
Tab view.
Tab in the tab view.
There's a pop-up,
a collection pop-up that will allow
us to set the desired properties
that we want and configure
them to our heart's content.
If we don't have Xcode 2.0,
we can edit the Info.plist directly
because that's all this is doing.
It's editing the Info.plist for
you because that's not very fun.
Now what I said about data types.
I mentioned data types earlier.
Automator uses UTIs to define data types.
That stands for Uniform Type Identifier.
And they're very common
on Mac OS X Tiger.
They can describe a type of a file or
they can describe objects in memory.
They can describe really
anything you want.
Automator has a lot of
predefined data types for you.
For Cocoa types such as Cocoa.String.
For AppleScript types,
AppleScript Object is one.
And they're all documented
in the documentation.
So you can go there,
pick one that's best for your
data type or your action.
or your action.
and use it.
Use it if you can.
Use one of those if possible.
But if not, you can declare a data
type for your own object.
And the way you would do that is there's
something called a .definition file.
In your sample code is an example of a
.definition file called Image Definition.
And it's,
there's nothing to compile in it.
It's basically an
Info.plist with a declaration.
And you declare the UTI using
reverse namespace format,
such as com.yourcompany.yourframework
or yourapp.yourobject.
And you also can provide a human
readable name so that users don't
actually ever see the UTI type.
They see the name that you've given it.
Um, .definition files can be
installed anywhere in the
/library/automator domains.
or in your project's bundle.
If it's in there,
along with some Automator Actions,
you can just drag and drop "Install
an application," and it'll see it,
and Automator will be able to use it.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Back to Demo 2.
Okay, as I said about using
the Target Inspector,
our target here is called Unsharp Mask,
the same as our project by default.
So we can select that,
and then click Get Info
to open the Inspector.
Select the Properties tab.
Now the top portion you probably
don't even need to modify.
Most of that's filled out for you.
The bottom portion is the
real Action Inspector here.
There's a collection pop-up with a
lot of different types of collections.
So you can change things like we can
tell it that the application is going
to be in the preview application group.
Should use the preview icon.
and input types are selected here.
Now as I said,
lists or single items are supported.
You can select either of those.
You can make the input
type optional if you want.
I'm going to change the
UTI type to be the UTI type that
I defined in -- for this action,
for the image type,
which is -- and again,
users never see this.
Quartz Core,
because that's the framework,
and Core Image.
That's the image type I'm using.
Instead of filling those all out,
I'm going to redo the
InfoP list all at once,
and then I'll go back and show you the
rest of the changes that I've made.
So if I save that,
the Target Inspector should be updated.
It is.
Good.
So some of the things-- I'll just
show you the things we changed.
I haven't modified a lot of the settings,
but I have set the name, Unchart Mask,
the application, the category,
and the icon name.
We've changed the input type.
and the output type to be the same thing.
They're both passing in-- or
it's accepting and providing
this core image type.
And we've added two parameters.
And these parameters match what we added
to the object controller in our nib.
We have an intensity value,
which is a real or a float.
And we can supply a default value for it.
We also have a radius
parameter to go along with it.
Now I've added,
I've changed the default warning level.
That should be irreversible rather.
You can specify an action as being safe,
means it doesn't modify any of the data.
It modifies it in a reversible
fashion or an irreversible fashion.
And in this case, that's what we have.
So we've specified
that it's irreversible.
And when you add that to your workflow,
Automator will prompt the user to add,
this is the bundle identifier
for the copy finder items action,
it will prompt the user to
add that before your action.
So we added that and we also
changed the description,
provided a summary,
and provided some information
on the options for this action.
And that's all we've
done to the InfoP list.
We also need to-- since there
is a strings file provided,
it would pick up this information
if we don't modify it.
So this is using the Info.plist strings,
you can put localized keys in
here to localize your action.
It'll actually,
if the user relaunches in French,
your action UI will also be in
French if you have localized keys.
So you can provide things
like the action name,
a localized action name,
names for your default parameters,
your descriptions, et cetera.
Put that in.
And so we've just supplied
localized names for the action.
The application, the category,
options and summary, etc.
and the Warning Level Description.
This comes up in a dialogue
when you add your action.
So now, now we should be able
to build and run it,
and it should look correct and
behave like any other action,
only
"It won't do anything because we
haven't added any code to do anything.
The default behavior is just to pass
through your input to your output."
Okay, so it should be on preview.
Unsharp mask.
And there's our warning.
I'm gonna say no for now.
But there's our action.
It has our default values in there.
and our UTI type, our image type,
with the human readable name.
So, looks pretty good.
Okay, let's go back to the slides.
Need this.
So our next step is to actually add code.
And the first thing we do
is add our existing code,
or our frameworks, to the action,
just like you normally
would in an Xcode project.
The method that we
override is runWithInput,
fromAction, error.
And I'll show you the class that
belongs in the AM bundle action class.
I'll show you that in a second.
But that method is what gets
called when your action is run.
It's where everything happens.
Tiger Ships with Automator
Framework on the system,
and it defines these classes
for using in Automator Actions.
AM Action is the base class.
It's just an abstract base
class which you won't use.
AM Bundle Action is the
one that Cocoa Actions use.
It supports loading of
nibs and copying and coding
[Transcript missing]
Okay, some tips on coding your Action.
Do not present custom error dialogs.
If an error occurs in your Action,
don't put up a warning
or display a sheet.
Leave that to Automator so the Automator
knows it needs to stop the workflow.
So in the run with
input from Action error,
there's that error parameter
that gives you a dictionary,
and you can fill out the
keys and just return that,
return from your Action,
and Automator will see that an error
occurred and treat that properly.
Access your Actions Bundle,
if you need to, by calling self-bundle,
or it's a method on am-bundle-action.
If you try and call
ns-bundle main-bundle,
you'll get Automator's Bundle,
because Automator is
the one executing this.
So that's something to keep in mind.
Actions run in a secondary thread.
So if you need to do any special UI,
like put up a window,
update a text field, something like that,
you'll need to call
into the primary thread.
And you can do that with this method,
perform selector on
main thread with object,
wait until done.
That'll get you the right behavior.
Some commonly overridden
methods in Automator Actions.
There's the opened method.
This is called
When your Action is added to a workflow,
but just before it's made visible.
And you'll want to do
this to update or to,
rather, to initialize the user
interface of your Action.
activated is called whenever the
workflow window is made frontmost.
So if the user goes
away and does something,
comes back, this is called.
This is really handy if you need to
keep your Actions UI in sync with other
stuff that's going on in the system.
Parameters Updated is called when the
Parameters Dictionary is changed behind
the scenes and you need to update
your user interface if necessary.
And then you can call update
parameters to tell Automator that
your parameters have changed.
For example,
if you're not using Cocoa Bindings,
then you need to update that
Parameters Dictionary in memory.
And remember to call super
on all these methods,
because the super classes do
things which need to be done.
And so you need to call super on those.
Now when it comes time
to build an action,
One thing you need to do
is configure the target.
The product name and extension
are generally filled out
for you and are correct,
but for conversion actions,
which I'll show you,
you should need to change the extension.
AMLint is a tool that is added
by the template as a build phase,
so it gets run whenever
you build your action,
and it will look for common
errors and mistakes in the
process of creating an action.
And you'll see those errors and
warnings in the standard build pane.
You can run PLUtil.
If you've edited your InfoP list
by hand and want to make sure that
you haven't made any mistakes,
It will check the format
of your InfoP list.
That's real handy because sometimes if
you've made a mistake in your InfoP list,
it can be really tricky to find that
that's where the mistake was made.
And again, installing your Action,
you can install it anywhere in
the /library/automator domains
or your applications bundle.
And it is not necessary to
install it before you debug it.
It just--you can,
but it takes a lot of extra time,
and it's a pain doing it that way.
So let's add some code to
our Unsharp Mask Action.
Here we are.
Okay,
so looking at our source code files,
we have a header file
called Unchart Mask,
and it is a subclass of AMBundleAction.
And we have the runWithInput
from action error method here.
It's declared by the superclass.
The template gives it to us,
so we'll just leave it.
And as I said,
the default behavior is just to
return your input to your output.
And so we're going to modify that.
I'm going to remove this.
Drag in the new.
As I said,
we're using the Core Image Framework.
We're also using this extended
Core Image Framework that is
included in your sample code.
Now, the reason for that is so
that when an image comes in,
or an image file comes into our workflow,
we convert it to an image object,
then later on we want to
save it back to the file,
but we've got to preserve the file name.
So we use this extended
Core Image Framework,
which adds a category on Core Image,
so that we can save the original path
to that image in the image object,
and then we'll have it later on.
That's what that's there for.
So in our runWithInput method,
let's look at the code.
The first thing we do is create
a mutable array called output.
And we're just going to use this.
Every time we get a piece of output,
we're going to stick it in there.
We're going to return it
at the end of our method,
and that's going to be
the output for our action.
So what we're going to do--
is get a Core Image Filter Object,
initialize it with defaults,
And then the way that we get
the parameters that the user has
customized is to call self parameters,
object for key, and then the key that
we're interested in.
And that's how we access
our parameters dictionary.
Our default parameters are the
ones that the user has customized,
and we're just going to take those,
and we're going to pass
them to that filter object.
Then, what we're going to do is we're
going to iterate over the input.
So these should be image objects.
And for each image object,
we're going to pass the
filter the image object.
Then get the resulting output image.
And as I said, we're trying to save
the original file URL,
so the new image is different
from the previous one,
so we just pass that along.
And then we add the
resulting CI image object.
[Transcript missing]
and we have no nib in here.
It has no UI.
And if you present,
if you have no nib in your action,
you'll still get in
the Automator workflow,
you'll still get the title
bar and the status bar,
but just nothing in between.
It'll just be an empty action.
There's a lot of actions like that.
So all we have here is code.
And here,
let me replace what we need to replace.
Tada!
Okay.
And here we have our runWithInput method.
And it does a lot of core image
stuff that we don't need to go into,
but we'll go over it somewhat.
We get a graphics context.
Remember I said in this step
we have to actually render our
core image object to a graphic.
We have to render it,
which we do into a graphics context.
So we get a graphics context,
and then we iterate over the input.
Again, we create a mutable
array to hold our output.
We iterate over the input.
So for each image that
comes into this action,
we're going to get the data for image,
and that calls into a function
which I have below here.
We're going to get the
data for that image,
then we're going to get the path that
that image was originally stored into,
and
and we're going to write
the data to the file.
Now, if an error happens there,
This is where we return an error.
We create an error string saying, sorry,
we couldn't do that.
And then in the error info dictionary,
We set that error string for this
NSAppleScript error message key.
AppleScript seems a
little out of place here,
but Cocoa methods,
it's all AppleScript thing, right?
Or at least it was originally, yeah.
It's Cocoa AppleScript, shell scripting,
it's everything.
So that's how we report errors.
and there's the data for image method
you can look at on your source code.
It's nothing particular to Automator,
it's just all core image stuff.
Back to the slides, please.
Okay, we went through Save Image to File.
And now we need to create
the Conversion Action.
Now, what is a Conversion Action?
Conversion Actions are really
an essential part of Automator.
They're completely invisible,
but Automator really wouldn't work
very well without Conversion Actions.
They handle the flow of
data between the actions.
So they can convert data from
completely different types,
or they can sort of act as filter,
filtering out unwanted types of data.
They have no UI.
In fact, you don't supply a nib,
and you shouldn't try and put
any UI up in a conversion action.
And they're executed
automatically by Automator.
Automator will look at, well,
for example, in this example,
getCurrentSong returns iTunes Songs.
That's not the files,
but that's actually the iTunes,
that's a specifier to the
object type in iTunes memory.
Then it passes that to an action
which takes files and folders.
Well, there's a conversion action
in there that's actually
performing that translation.
It's using AppleScript to
get the iTunes song object,
getting the location
property out of that object,
and then creating a list of these
paths and returning that or passing
that along to the next action.
And so Automator will determine
when this needs to be done.
It'll find the correct conversion action.
It'll even string together a series
of conversion actions if necessary
to perform the required conversion.
So how do you create a Conversion Action?
It's almost exactly identical
to creating a regular Action,
but you need to change the product
extension to .cAction instead of .action.
and you delete the main nib file.
That's probably even optional.
I think Automator wouldn't
even load it if you had one.
So you just need to follow those
steps and we'll do that right now.
If we can go to the demo machine.
So I'm going to open up step one.
The completed portion of
this part is in step two,
if you want to see that.
But I'm going to open up step one
and make the changes from there.
Okay, so if we select our target
and open up the inspector,
what we want to do is click
on the Build tab and scroll
down until we find...
The wrapper extension.
Boop.
Right there.
So it says -action by default.
We want to change that to C action.
Pretty easy, and we don't have a nib.
I've already pre-configured the rest.
Let's look at this to show
you the input and output type.
So the input type is a Cocoa path,
so we're going to be
getting paths to files,
and we're going to output our data type,
Quartz Core, Core Images.
Now to write the code for that,
wrong button.
Again we have a runWithInput method.
So again,
the first thing we do is create a
mutable array to hold the output.
Starting to see a pattern here.
Then we iterate over the input.
Again, the same thing.
And we get the file path,
the current file path,
and we're going to create a
URL in it so that we can put that
into our image that we create.
And we're going to create an image,
a CI image object from the URL.
and put that object in our output.
It's that simple.
Most conversion actions
are really simple.
It's just a way of, like,
of getting an object and then just
getting a property out of it to convert
the type or something like that.
So...
So that's what there is to
creating a conversion action.
And in a moment,
we should be able to build
and run the entire workflow.
Can I go back to the slides?
Okay, and I'll show you that as
part of debugging an action.
So, to debug an action,
There is an executable that the
template will create this executable
[Transcript missing]
is the name of the Action,
and it will load that
Action as Automator launches.
So that's a way that you can
build and run and debug your
Action without having to install it.
And we will show you that.
And then you can debug as usual.
Also in the workflow,
if you want to modify or monitor
and inspect what your action is,
what's coming into it,
what's going out of it,
the View Results Action is
very handy for that.
It'll show you all the information.
And then there's also a workflow
log which will show you actions
that are being run at what time,
what conversions are happening.
et cetera.
So let's debug an action.
Whoops.
We can go back to demo machine.
Alright, so I'm going to go back to
the action that we created,
which was this one.
And I need to do two things.
I just need to import
our custom framework.
Library Frameworks.
That's not it.
Sorry, wrong disk.
Okay, Library Frameworks,
and there's our custom framework.
Yes.
And import the Quartz.
Core Image Framework in
System Library Frameworks.
Quartz Core.
Okay, I'm going to set a breakpoint
on the runWithInput method.
and let me just make
sure of one property.
Okay.
[Transcript missing]
should launch... Oh, sorry, one mistake.
Automator was already running.
I don't want to run a second copy.
Here we go.
Launching Automator.
Okay, and I have a preset workflow here
that we're going to test out.
Now what this does is we're
gonna get an image file.
We're going to copy it to the desktop.
We're going to run the
Unsharp Mask filter on it,
and I've got the settings turned
way up so that we can see-- because
it's kind of a subtle action-- so
that we can see the effects of it.
Then it's going to save that to file.
And I've got this other step so that
we can see the before and after.
We're going to get the
original image again,
and it's going to add it.
So we've got the modified
and the original one,
and then we're going to
open them both in preview.
But it should break on Unsharp
Mask in the run with action.
There we are.
and we can step through it if we want.
There aren't any bugs
here that I know about,
but we can step through it.
and look and see.
There we've created an image.
We have a resulting image.
We're gonna add it to the output.
Return the output.
and should launch preview and
there we can see it really
sharpened the heck out of it.
There we go.
Okay, back to the slides.
Okay, so what did we learn?
We learned guidelines
and designing actions,
how to create actions
and conversion actions,
How to debug them.
It's all really very similar
to what you're used to doing
in regular Objective C apps.
And just how easy it is.
Each of these pieces is just small,
and you can quickly create
a whole slew of them.
That's probably why there's 550
Automator Actions out there already.
So, more information.
We've got the standard
ADC website for documentation,
sample code.
and related sessions.
Tomorrow morning is a lab for
Automator Action development.
Please come by and
give us your questions.
We'd love to help you out.
Also, tomorrow afternoon is the
Building Automator Actions for
System Administrators session.
I believe most of that will
be the shell script action,
but it should be very interesting.
Who to contact?
Sal, who you all know.
Inside Joke, sorry.
And Todd Fernandez,
the Engineering Manager.
Also,
there's the Automator Dev mailing list.
Get on that.
It's very interesting reading.
And with that,
we'll invite John Montbreon for the Q&A.